## Design Principles

Principles help guide consistent high-quality decisions. These are mantras that people have heard me say most often over the last couple of decades.

+ <details class="card"><summary>"Ask, don't assume."</summary>Our perception of the world is a rich sensory hallucination inferred from assumptions and previous experiences. The human brain uses perceptual completion to construct narratives that fill in gaps in data. We can reduce ambiguity in Product Design in two ways. We collect evidence - qualitative and quantitative research - to fill gaps in our understanding. We use repeated, iterative, communication, to build alignment up, down, and across work streams.</details>
+ <details class="card"><summary>"If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together."</summary>I believe that success is an infinite sum game that can be grown through collaboration. Building and shipping products at scale is a team sport. A great outcome depends on collaboration from experts with <em>diverse skills</em> and not a lone genius creator. Design' craft makes us uniquely adapted to enhancing collaboration. We can make things that evolve abstract conversations into tactile decisions.</details>
+ <details class="card"><summary>"Momentum is better than planning."</summary>
  It's so much easier to pivot or accelerate if you're already in motion. A sealion balances a ball on its nose by <em>intentionally</em> moving the ball where it wants to go. Designers can shape our future by continually creating to help us understand the challenge better. I wrote about using <a href="/blog/a-little-feedback-often/">Design Momentum</a> to increase learning.</details>
+ <details class="card"><summary>"You need to walk all around the tree to pick the best fruit."</summary>The solution in design often seems obvious but is usually the product of a rigorous process. In the rare event that you find a viable solution quickly, you still have the burden of proof to be sure.</details>

{.well .fullwidth .grid .cols2}

<!--+ <details class="card"><summary>"Directing is 90% Casting."</summary>This adage comes from film & theater producers. Hiring and developing talent is a leader’s #1 priority. Period. Who we hire is the biggest factor on team culture and quality outcomes. Through my years of hiring, including some hard lessons, I’ve developed a robust hiring framework. Effective hiring builds on objective career guides, DEI policy, and strategic goals.</details>-->